Long a home of horrid monsters and vicious raiders, the Dreadwood hides within its borders a multitude of terrors. [[Keoland]] maintains ranger patrols that sweep through the outer reaches of the forest periodically, while several wood elf clans dwell at its edge. The two forces are generally successful at keeping the monsters of the Dreadwood in check, but at times a threat that avoids them or overcomes them emerges to wreak havoc across the land.

The inner depths of the Dreadwood are a place where the planar bindings between Oerth and the [[Shadowfell]] are thin. Undead creatures and villainous monsters that seek to tap into the essence of the [[Shadowfell]] thrive deep in the forest. Its innermost reaches mingle with that dark realm, forming a warped mirror version of the Dreadwood that extends into that plane.

### Outer Fringe. 
The outermost reaches of the Dreadwood are as lightly wooded as those of any other forest and extend five to ten miles into the woods. This part of the forest is as safe as any other woodland, thanks to frequent ranger and elf patrols that keep the denizens of the deeper forest at bay if they try to encroach here. Owlbears, wolves, and a few bandit gangs that elude the notice of the patrols represent the most common threats to explorers or travelers.

### Middle Reaches.
Inside the outer fringe, the forest takes on an increasingly sinister character. Even on the brightest days, the thick canopy of greenery threatens to devour the sunlight. Throughout this middle area, bright light extends no more than 20 feet from any source of illumination, with the normal area of bright light beyond that range reduced to dim light and dim light turned to darkness. Those who travel without a source of light during the day find that the thick canopy casts everything in dim light, and in some areas the growth overhead is so thick that the area below is dark.

### Dreaded Deeps. 
In the heart of the forest, natural light is unknown. Each step a traveler takes when moving through the middle reaches toward the center seems to dim the sun's light a little more, until one enters the dreaded deeps, where the forest growth is so heavy that it blots out the sky. Sources of bright light shine out to only a 10-foot radius, with any normally bright illumination beyond that turned to dim light and dim light made dark. Even darkvision suffers, since it functions here at a maximum range of 30 feet.

### Dark Dreams. 
Taking a long rest anywhere in the Dreadwood carries with it the risk of drawing [[Granny Nightshade]]'s attention. Each resting character must roll a `dice: d20`. On a roll of 1, the character suffers horrible dreams that leave them marked by the forest. Creatures of the Dreadwood gain advantage on all attacks against them for the next day and know the character's name and personal details, calling to them to journey deeper into the forest and serve beside their mistress.