The traditionalist faction is an alliance of the prominent fishing families and merchants in town, along with the workers who rely on those industries for a living. The traditionalists remember the terrible times during the [[Sea Princes]]' raids and have no desire to see the crown's ambitions lead to open war. The [[smugglers]] who operate in the area tend to be traditionalists. Most pose as merchants and rely on their local contacts to move goods through the region without interference from the town guard or royal agents. Smuggling has long been an easy way to make money in [[Saltmarsh]], and locals generally look the other way, seeing it as a victimless crime.

The traditionalists would like to see the dwarves' mining efforts fail and interest from the north wane, so that [[Saltmarsh]]'s dependable fishing trade can thrive and the smugglers in the area are left alone. They resent the intrusion of outsiders seeking to transform [[Saltmarsh]] and undoubtedly drain power from the fishing families to give to dwarves and merchants.

This faction relies on two council members for representation. [[Eda Oweland]] leads the faction and can count on [[Gellan Primewater]] to back her up. [[Anders Solmor]] is young and unpredictable, but he has supported the traditionalists' viewpoint on most issues.

At their best, traditionalists are community-minded folk who want [[Saltmarsh]] to return to its old way of doing things, arguing that the town has survived for a century by sticking to its original priorities. They suffered mightily due to the [[Sea Princes]]' depredations and remember the days when the crown turned a blind eye to their troubles. Their loyalty to the [[King Kimbertos Skotti|king]] runs second to their desire for peace and quiet.